HACKTX  INFO 

 

We hope you are as excited about HACKTX as we are! Here are 
some things you should know before you hack with us this 
weekend: 
 
 
 
Content provided in this info packet: 

- General Information 
- Code of Conduct 
- Schedule 
-
Liability Forms 
- Bus Information 

 
 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION: 

What should I do before I come to the event? 

Download the app to our event right now! (Go to ​iOS​ or ​Android​), that way you can register faster 
and smoother! You can also look through it if you would like. We also would suggest getting 
together with some friends and just doing some fun mini hacks and/or brainstorming your 
HackTX hack! (no starting on it until the hacking portion starts though) 

 

If I am taking a bus to and from HackTX when and where will it pick-up, drop-off and depart? Who 
can I contact if I have trouble finding/making the bus? 

Please go to the bottom of this information packet for all of the bus information.​ All other 
information regarding bus riders can also be found in this section​. 
 

I’m going to be hungry from the bus ride, do I have to wait until lunch to get food? 

Nope! We will give everyone on each bus snacks upon arrival!  

 

What should I bring? 

Yourself 
Your valid university ID (or driver's license if you are in high school) 
Your computer and a charger 
Any other equipment you deem necessary for your hack.  
A change of clothes 
Toiletries (toothbrush, face wash, etc.) 
A blanket and/or sweatshirt (it might be cold and you might want to nap). 
Most of all, bring energy, ideas, and a great attitude so you can have tons of fun! 

-
-
-
-
-
-
-
      -
 
    **(Firearms, weapons, alcohol, illegal drugs, or power tools are not allowed.)  

 

When and where do I check-in? 

-
-
-

-
-

Check-in begins at 9:30am and will continue until the opening ceremony at 12pm.  
Late check-in will last until hacking begins at 1pm.  
The check-in desk will be located on the second-floor of the SAC. It will be in front of the 
ballroom, which is one floor up from the food court area.  
Head to the check-in table as soon as you arrive.  
If you arrive after these aforementioned times, please head to the check-in desk and we 
will do our best to help you get started.   

 

What do I need to check-in? 

You will need your student ID. We will provide you with a wristband after you check-in. 

 

What do I do after I check-in and get my wristband? 

Head to the opening ceremony! 
Keep your wristband on during the entire event. Without your wristband, you can’t get food, 
hardware, etc. You also cannot compete in HackTX without your wristband. 

 

When can I hack? 

Hacking will begin at 1pm on Saturday and last until 11am on Sunday. Please do not hack at 
other times (while at HackTX) as it will disqualify you from the judging rounds. This however, 
does not mean that what you hack during HackTX cannot be the start of a bigger project to 
complete with your group, the hacker community, or on your own. 

 

How do I submit my hack? 

All hack’s will be submitted through devpost at the end of the event. We will let you know 1 hour, 
30 minutes, and then lastly 15 minutes before all projects are due. We will provide more details 
towards the end of the event when it is more pertinent. 

 

How do teams work? 

Teams can be up to 5 members. If you don't have a team, check out our Facebook group for 
attendees. You can also join a team at the beginning of HackTX. Joining a team of new friends is 
the best part of a hackathon. Hackathons are all about meeting new people and getting involved 
in the hacker community- so put yourself out there! 

 

What can I work on? 

You can work on anything that uses tech. Whatever you are interested in, whether that be 
education, healthcare, business, design, etc. you can use tech to build something awesome! Build 
an mobile or web app, build some hardware (we will be providing a lot of cool hardware for you to 
use for free). Create a game, make a virtual world. The point is whatever you feel like building- do 
it! Learn something new! We will have lots of resources and mentors to help you get started! If 
you don’t have any ideas, you can always check out our challenge page! 

 

What hardware will y’all have?  

We will have all of this cool stuff: 

 

 

6x Arduino  
3x Firephone 
10x Leap 
3x Muse 
12x Oculus 
20x Pebble 
10x Sparkcore 
19x Myo 
Much much More! 

It’s my first time, what should I expect? 

First and foremost, you should expect to have fun! Expect to learn, meet new friends, and enjoy a 
great environment and community driven to helping each other! We will also provide you with 

your hardware needs during the event (shown above), food(see schedule for details), and space 
to work on your awesome project with your team if you choose to have one! 

 

How will communication work at HackTX? 

We will be using slack, a group messaging system that has individual channels (subgroups) for 
specific topics and 1:1 direct messaging. It’s like facebook messenger that allows you to create 
groups inside of groups. You will be emailed an invite link to the HackTX slack. 

How do I get help from a mentor? 

You will use slack to notify a mentor that you would like help. You just type /mentor [what you 
need help with] into the slack text bar and voila, a mentor will be pinged and you and that mentor 
will be put into a private message on slack and they can come help you! Mentors will also be 
walking around to help with labels indicating that they are mentors and what they can help you 
with.  

 

What if I have a question that wasn’t answered from above? 

If you have a question before the event, please message us via the slack you have joined, on our 
facebook page, on our twitter, or email us directly at ​hello@hacktx.com​. 
If you have a question during the event, a help desk will be located in the same place as the 
check-in tables. Otherwise, you can find an organizer or director who will be wearing a blue 
colored shirt and they will answer your question or direct you to someone who can. 

 
 

 

CODE OF CONDUCT:  
 

Please review the MLH Code of Conduct ​here​. We want to keep HackTX welcoming, fun, 
and safe and therefore take following the Code of Conduct very seriously. Any actions that 
result in a breaking of this conduct will not be tolerated. If there are any incidents that you 
see, please report them immediately to an organizer or MLH personnel and we will take 
care of it. 

 
 
 
LIABILITY FORMS: 

 
Please have liability forms filled out before checking in. 

Liability forms will be available on the​ ​my.hacktx.com​ dashboard for non-UT students. UT 
students do not need to complete this form. 

 
 
 
FULL SCHEDULE: 
 

9/26:
930am: check-in starts
12:00pm: opening ceremony
1:00pm: hacking starts
1:30pm: lunch
4:15pm: snacks
8:00pm: dinner

 
 

9/27: 
12:00am: midnight surprise 
4:00am: snacks 
9:45am: breakfast 
11:00am: hacking is done, lunch 
12:00pm: expo 
2:00pm: closing ceremony 
4:00pm: buses arrive 
4:30pm: buses depart 

BUS INFORMATION: 
 
Bus captains have a list of who is assigned to each bus. Only students from schools to which the 
bus is for may ride that bus. IDs will be checked. 
 
1. Dallas 
UT Dallas (Primary contact) 
Contact​: Jake Welsh - ​210-860-7552 
jacob.walsh@utdallas.edu 
SMU (Secondary contact) 
Contact: Jorge Armando Valdez ​972-825-6347 
javaldez@smu.edu 
Bus Operator: Wynne Motorcoach 
Driver Information: Dan Canterburry (972) 977-8929 
Bus pick-up address​: 800 W Campbell Rd, Richardson, TX 75080 
Instructions​: ​The bus driver should come into campus and park in Lot J. Here is a 
map:​http://www.utdallas.edu/services/download/Parking_Map.pdf 
From Campbell Rd, turn onto University Pkwy towards the giant UTD sign. Continue up to the traffic circle. Take the second exit out 
of the circle towards the visitor center building and a large parking lot. Park in that parking lot and call me (Jake) if they get lost. 
There should be no special access to campus needed. 
Bus pick-up time​: 6:30am 
Bus departure time​: 7am 

 
 
2. Houston 
Rice University 
Contact:​ Krishna Thiagarajan ​(281)-865-3546 
riceucsclub@gmail.com 
Bus pick-up address​: 6100 Main, Houston, TX 
Instructions​: ​The bus driver should park at Founders Court, which is the big grass field that you see when you come 
through the main entrance on Main and Sunset 
Bus pick-up time​: 7:30-7:45am 
Bus departure time​: 8am 
**University of Houston attendees can also board this bus 
  
3. Brownsville 
UT RGV -Brownsville 
Contact​: Mike Chaires ​(956) 543-7737 
miguel.chaires01@utrgv.edu 
Bus Operator: Valley Transit 
Driver Information: Manuel Reyna (956) 893-3416 
Bus Pick-up address​: 1 W University Blvd, Brownsville TX, 78520 
Instructions​: None received at this time. 
Bus pick-up time at UTRGV Brownsville​: 3:30am 
Bus departure time​: 4am 
  
 
4. Edinburg 
UTRGV - Edinburgh 
Contact: Alejandro Huerta ​(956) 341-8831 
alejandro.huerta02@utrgv.edu 
Bus Operator: Valley Transit 
Driver Information: Yvette Tovar (956) 564-0871 
Bus pick-up Address​: 1201 W University Dr, Edinburg, TX, 78539 
Instructions​: The building is called the Visitor’s Center and has a driveway perfect for a bus, in fact it is where the bus 
stopped last year. 
Bus pick-up time at UTRGV Edinburg​: 3:30am 
Bus departure time​: 4am 
  
5. College Station 
Texas A&M 
Contact​: Rafa Moreno ​(832) 217-4918 
rmoreno.cesar@gmail.com 
 
Bus pick-up Address​: 188 Bizzel Street, College Station, TX 77843 
Instructions​: The specific building the bus driver is going to be getting us at is called Wisenbaker. There is a bus stop 
right in front of that building on Bizzel Street. He won't need any special access if he goes onto Bizzel Street from 
University Drive. 

Bus pick-up time​: 8:30-8:45am 
Bus departure time​: 9am 
  
Upon arrival in Austin, the drop-off location is: 
The University of Texas at Austin 
Bus drop-off Address:​ 200 W. 21st St. Austin, TX 78712 
Instructions​: This is at the intersection of University Ave. and W. 21st St.  This is a UT football game day and there will be 
congestion in the area.  UTPD has requested for buses not to drive on Martin Luther King Blvd (MLK) due to construction 
and congestion.  No buses will be allowed access directly on campus.  This drop-off point it in front of the Littlefield 
Fountain, facing the UT Tower.  It is not considered to be on campus. 
  
RETURN BUS TRIPS, Sunday, September 27 
The return is much simpler. 
Bus pick-up location​: 200 W. 21st St. Austin, TX 78712 
Instructions​: This is at the intersection of University Ave. and W. 21st St.  This is a UT football game day and there will be 
congestion in the area.  UTPD has requested for buses not to drive on Martin Luther King Blvd (MLK) due to construction 
and congestion.  No buses will be allowed access directly on campus.  This drop-off point it in front of the Littlefield 
Fountain, facing the UT Tower.  It is not considered to be on campus. 
Bus pick-up time​: 4pm 
Bus departure time​: 4:30pm 
   
If you have further questions please contact your bus captain 
Also note that times may change by 30 minutes in either direction 
 
 
 
WE ARE SO EXCITED FOR THIS WEEKEND! SEE Y’ALL THERE! 
<3 THE HACKTX TEAM 
 

